BHHS Independent Reading
For independent reading selections, students may wish to consider books from the list below. These titles
represent both past summer reading favorites and popular selections made by students as part of our
Independent Reading Initiative. Of course, students are welcome to choose books that are not on this list.
As with all independent reading selections, we ask that students discuss their choices with parents,
teachers, and librarians. Some books may contain mature topics and language.
Independent Reading Selections
An Abundance
of Katherines John Green
When it comes to relationships, everyone has a type. Colin Singleton’s
type is girls named Katherine. He has dated–and been dumped by–19
Katherines. In the wake of The K-19 Debacle, Colin–an anagram-
obsessed washed-up child prodigy–heads out on a road trip with his
overweight, Judge Judy- loving friend Hassan.
The Alchemist 	Paulo Coelho
The Alchemist is the magical story of Santiago, an Andalusian shepherd
boy who yearns to travel in search of a worldly treasure as extravagant
as any ever found. From his home in Spain he journeys to the markets
of Tangiers and across the Egyptian desert to a fateful encounter with
the alchemist.
All the Light
We Cannot See
Anthony
Doerr
From the highly acclaimed, multiple award-winning Anthony Doerr,
the beautiful, stunningly ambitious instant New York Times bestseller
about a blind French girl and a German boy whose paths collide in
occupied France as both try to survive the devastation of World War II.
Allegiant 	Veronica Roth
One choice will define you. What if your whole world was a lie? What
if a single revelation—like a single choice—changed everything? What
if love and loyalty made you do things you never expected?
The explosive conclusion to Veronica Roth's #1 New York Times
bestselling Divergent trilogy reveals the secrets of the dystopian world
that captivated millions of readers and film fans in Divergent and
Insurgent.
Angels and
Demons Dan Brown
When a world renowned scientist is found brutally murdered in a Swiss
research facility, a Harvard professor, Robert Langdon, is summoned to
identify the mysterious symbol seared onto the dead man's chest.
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	1 	22

-- 1 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
The Art of
Racing in the
Rain
Garth Stein
Enzo knows he is different from other dogs: a philosopher with a nearly
human soul (and an obsession with opposable thumbs), he has
educated himself by watching television extensively, and by listening
very closely to the words of his master, Denny Swift, an up-and-coming
race car driver.
Ashen Winter 	Mike Mullin
It’s been over six months since the eruption of the Yellowstone
supervolcano. Alex and Darla have been staying with Alex’s relatives,
trying to cope with the new reality of the primitive world so vividly
portrayed in Ashfall, the first book in this trilogy.
Ashfall 	Mike Mullin
Many visitors to Yellowstone National Park don’t realize that the
boiling hot springs and spraying geysers are caused by an underlying
supervolcano, so large that the caldera can only be seen by plane or
satellite. And by some scientific measurements, it could be overdue for
an eruption.
An Astronaut’s
Guide to Life on
Earth
Chris Hadfield
Colonel Chris Hadfield has spent decades training as an astronaut and
has logged nearly 4000 hours in space. During this time he has broken
into a Space Station with a Swiss army knife, disposed of a live snake
while piloting a plane, and been temporarily blinded while clinging to
the exterior of an orbiting spacecraft. The secret to Col. Hadfield's
success-and survival-is an unconventional philosophy he learned at
NASA: prepare for the worst-and enjoy every moment of it.
Atomic Habits 	James Clear
No matter your goals, Atomic Habits offers a proven framework for
improving--every day. James Clear, one of the world's leading experts
on habit formation, reveals practical strategies that will teach you
exactly how to form good habits, break bad ones, and master the tiny
behaviors that lead to remarkable results.
Better Than the
Movies Lynn Painter
Perpetual daydreamer Liz Buxbaum gave her heart to Michael a long
time ago. But her cool, aloof forever crush never really saw her before
he moved away. Now that he’s back in town, Liz will do whatever it
takes to get on his radar—and maybe snag him as a prom date—even
befriend Wes Bennet.
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	2 	22

-- 2 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
Big Mouth and
Ugly Girl
Joyce Carol
Oates
Big Mouth
No I did not. I did not, I did not. I did not say those things, and I did
not plan those things. Won't It anyone believe me?
Ugly Girl
All right, Ugly Girl made a mistake. I'd told my mom what I'd heard in
the cafeteria, and she'd told Dad. Evidently. I'd thought for sure they
would want me to speak up for the truth.
Blindsided Chelsea
Catherine
Blindsided follows Eli as she leads Carla, a local real estate agent,
through an election for Key West city mayor. At first, the campaign
process appears easy. Despite their differences, the two women work
well together. But as time progresses, they face countless obstacles: the
Bubba system in the Keys, discrimination from both supporting and
opposing forces, and their rapidly intensifying relationship. While
Carla starts to doubt her decisions, Eli struggles to find her place in the
Keys and in Carla's budding campaign.
Blink: The
Power of
Thinking
Without
Thinking
Malcolm
Gladwell
Blink is a book about how we think without thinking, about choices
that seem to be made in an instant-in the blink of an eye-that actually
aren't as simple as they seem. Why are some people brilliant decision
makers, while others are consistently inept? Why do some people
follow their instincts and win, while others end up stumbling into
error?
The Book Thief 	Markus Zusak
Liesel Meminger is a foster girl living outside of Munich, who scratches
out a meager existence for herself by stealing when she encounters
something she can’t resist–books. With the help of her accordion-
playing foster father, she learns to read and shares her stolen books
with her neighbors during bombing raids as well as with the Jewish
man hidden in her basement.
Bossypants 	Tina Fey
At last, Tina Fey's story can be told. From her youthful days as a vicious
nerd to her tour of duty on Saturday Night Live; from her passionately
halfhearted pursuit of physical beauty to her life as a mother eating
things off the floor; from her one-sided college romance to her nearly
fatal honeymoon -- from the beginning of this paragraph to this final
sentence.
The Boy in the
Striped
Pyjamas
John Boyne
Nine-year-old Bruno has a lot of things on his mind. Who is the 'Fury'?
Why did he make them leave their nice home in Berlin to go to 'Out-
With' ? And who are all the sad people in striped pyjamas on the other
side of the fence? The grown-ups won't explain so Bruno decides there
is only one thing for it—he will have to explore this place alone. What
he discovers is a new friend. A boy with the very same birthday. A boy
in striped pyjamas. But why can't they ever play together?
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	3 	22

-- 3 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
The Boys in the
Boat
Daniel James
Brown
For readers of Unbroken, out of the depths of the Depression comes an
irresistible story about beating the odds and finding hope in the most
desperate of times—the improbable, intimate account of how nine
working-class boys from the American West showed the world at the
1936 Olympics in Berlin what true grit really meant.
A Brief History
of Time
Stephen
Hawking
In the ten years since its publication in 1988, Stephen Hawking's classic
work has become a landmark volume in scientific writing, with more
than nine million copies in forty languages sold worldwide. That
edition was on the cutting edge of what was then known about the
origins and nature of the universe. But the intervening years have seen
extraordinary advances in the technology of observing both the micro-
and the macrocosmic worlds.
Bringing Down
the House Ben Mezrich
Robin Hood meets the Rat Pack when the best and the brightest of
M.I.T.’s math students and engineers take up blackjack under the
guidance of an eccentric mastermind. Their small blackjack club
develops from an experiment in counting cards on M.I.T.’s campus into
a ring of card savants with a system for playing large and winning big.
In less than two years they take some of the world’s most sophisticated
casinos for more than three million dollars.
The Children of
Willesden Lane
Mona Golabek
& Lee Cohen
Jewish musical prodigy Lisa Jura has a wonderful life in Vienna. But
when the Nazis start closing in on the city, life changes irreversibly.
Although he has three daughters, Lisa's father is able to secure only one
berth on the Kindertransport. The family decides to send Lisa to
London so that she may pursue her dreams of a career as a concert
pianist. Separated from her beloved family, Lisa bravely endures the
trip and a disastrous posting outside London before finding her way to
the Willesden Lane Orphanage.
Chinese
Handcuffs Chris Crutcher
Dillon is living with the painful memory of his brother's suicide -- and
the role he played in it. To keep his mind and body occupied, he trains
intensely for the Ironman triathlon. But outside of practice, his life
seems to be falling apart.
The Color of
Water James McBride
As a boy in Brooklyn's Red Hook projects, James McBride knew his
mother was different. But when he asked about it, she'd simply say 'I'm
light-skinned.' Later he wondered if he was different too, and asked his
mother if he was black or white. 'You're a human being,' she snapped.
'Educate yourself or you'll be a nobody!'
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	4 	22

-- 4 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
Crazy Rich
Asians Kevin Kwan
When New Yorker Rachel Chu agrees to spend the summer in
Singapore with her boyfriend, Nicholas Young, she envisions a humble
family home and quality time with the man she hopes to marry. But
Nick has failed to give his girlfriend a few key details. One, that his
childhood home looks like a palace; two, that he grew up riding in more
private planes than cars; and three, that he just happens to be the
country’s most eligible bachelor.
Crooked
Kingdom Leigh Bardugo
Discover what comes next for Kaz, Jesper, Inej, and Wylan, and the star-
crossed Nina and Matthias, in Crooked Kingdom, the spectacular
sequel to Six of Crows.
When you can’t beat the odds, change the game.
The Curious
Incident of the
Dog in the
Night-Time
Mark Haddon
Narrated by a fifteen-year-old autistic savant obsessed with Sherlock
Holmes, this dazzling novel weaves together an old-fashioned mystery,
a contemporary coming-of-age story, and a fascinating excursion into a
mind incapable of processing emotions.
Daisy Jones &
the Six
Taylor Jenkins
Reid
A gripping novel about the whirlwind rise of an iconic 1970s rock group
and their beautiful lead singer, revealing the mystery behind their
infamous breakup—from the author of The Seven Husbands of Evelyn
Hugo, Malibu Rising, and Carrie Soto Is Back
The Darkest
Minds
Alexandra
Bracken
When Ruby woke up on her tenth birthday, something about her had
changed. Something alarming enough to make her parents lock her in
the garage and call the police. Something that gets her sent to
Thurmond, a brutal government "rehabilitation camp." She might have
survived the mysterious disease that's killed most of America's
children, but she and the others have emerged with something far
worse: frightening abilities they cannot control.
The DaVinci
Code Dan Brown
Robert Langdon, professor of religious symbology at Harvard, is in
Paris to give a lecture. At the reception that follows, he is scheduled to
meet with a revered curator from the world-famous Louvre museum.
But the curator never shows up, and later that night Langdon is
awakened by authorities and told that the curator has been found dead.
He is then taken to the Louvre--the scene of the crime--where he finds
out that baffling clues have been left behind.
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	5 	22

-- 5 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
The Death Cure 	James Dashner
It’s the end of the line.
WICKED has taken everything from Thomas: his life, his memories,
and now his only friends—the Gladers. But it’s finally over. The trials
are complete, after one final test.
Will anyone survive?
The Devil in the
White City Erik Larson
The Devil in the White City draws the reader into a time of magic and
majesty, made all the more appealing by a supporting cast of real-life
characters, including Buffalo Bill, Theodore Dreiser, Susan B. Anthony,
Thomas Edison, Archduke Francis Ferdinand, and others. Erik Larson’s
gifts as a storyteller are magnificently displayed in this rich narrative of
the master builder, the killer, and the great fair that obsessed them both.
Divergent 	Veronica Roth
One choice can transform you. Beatrice Prior's society is divided into
five factions—Candor (the honest), Abnegation (the selfless), Dauntless
(the brave), Amity (the peaceful), and Erudite (the intelligent). Beatrice
must choose between staying with her Abnegation family and
transferring factions. Her choice will shock her community and herself.
But the newly christened Tris also has a secret, one she's determined to
keep hidden, because in this world, what makes you different makes
you dangerous.
A Dog’s Purpose W. Bruce
Cameron
Heartwarming, insightful, and often laugh-out-loud funny, A Dog's
Purpose is not only the emotional and hilarious story of a dog's many
lives, but also a dog's-eye commentary on human relationships and the
unbreakable bonds between man and man's best friend. This moving
and beautifully crafted story teaches us that love never dies, that our
true friends are always with us, and that every creature on earth is born
with a purpose.
Dune 	Frank Herbert
Set on the desert planet Arrakis, Dune is the story of the boy Paul
Atreides, who would become the mysterious man known as Muad'Dib.
He would avenge the traitorous plot against his noble family—and
would bring to fruition humankind’s most ancient and unattainable
dream.
Eleanor and
Park
Rainbow
Rowell
Set over the course of one school year in 1986, this is the story of two
star-crossed misfits-smart enough to know that first love almost never
lasts, but brave and desperate enough to try. When Eleanor meets Park,
you'll remember your own first love-and just how hard it pulled you
under.
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	6 	22

-- 6 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
The Element:
How Finding
your Passion
Changes
Everything
Sir Ken
Robinson
With a wry sense of humor, Ken Robinson looks at the conditions that
enable us to find ourselves in the element and those that stifle that
possibility. He shows that age and occupation are no barrier, and that
once we have found our path we can help others to do so as well. The
Element shows the vital need to enhance creativity and innovation by
thinking differently about human resources and imagination.
Endurance 	Alfred Lansing
The astonishing saga of polar explorer Ernest Shackleton's survival for
over a year on the ice-bound Antarctic seas, as Time magazine put it,
"defined heroism." Alfred Lansing's scrupulously researched and
brilliantly narrated book -- with over 200,000 copies sold -- has long
been acknowledged as the definitive account of the Endurance's fateful
trip.
Everything,
Everything Nicola Yoon
Maddy is allergic to the world; stepping outside the sterile sanctuary of
her home could kill her. But then Olly moves in next door. And just like
that, Maddy realizes there's more to life than just being alive. You only
get one chance at first love. And Maddy is ready to risk everything,
everything to see where it leads.
The 5th Wave 	Rick Yancey
After the 1st wave, only darkness remains. After the 2nd, only the lucky
escape. And after the 3rd, only the unlucky survive. After the 4th wave,
only one rule applies: trust no one.
Now, it's the dawn of the 5th wave, and on a lonely stretch of highway,
Cassie runs from Them.
Five Feet Apart Rachael
Lippincott
Stella Grant likes to be in control—even though her totally out of
control lungs have sent her in and out of the hospital most of her life. At
this point, what Stella needs to control most is keeping herself away
from anyone or anything that might pass along an infection and
jeopardize the possibility of a lung transplant. Six feet apart. No
exceptions.
Freakonomics
Steven D.
Levitt &
Stephen J.
Dubner
Which is more dangerous, a gun or a swimming pool?
What do schoolteachers and sumo wrestlers have in common?
How much do parents really matter?
These may not sound like typical questions for an economist to ask. But
Steven D. Levitt is not a typical economist.
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	7 	22

-- 7 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
The Future of
Us
Jay Asher &
Carolyn
Mackler
It's 1996, and Josh and Emma have been neighbors their whole lives.
They've been best friends almost as long--at least, up until last
November, when everything changed. Things have been awkward ever
since, but when Josh's family gets a free AOL CD-ROM in the mail, his
mom makes him bring it over so that Emma can install it on her new
computer. When they sign on, they're automatically logged onto
Facebook . . . but Facebook hasn't been invented yet. Josh and Emma
are looking at themselves fifteen years in the future.
A Good Girl’s
Guide to
Murder
Holly Jackson
With shades of Serial and Making a Murderer this is the story about an
investigation turned obsession, full of twists and turns and with an
ending you'll never expect. Everyone in Fairview knows the story.
The Hate U
Give Angie Thomas
A powerful and brave YA novel about what prejudice looks like in the
21st century. Sixteen-year-old Starr lives in two worlds: the poor
neighborhood where she was born and raised and her posh high school
in the suburbs. The uneasy balance between them is shattered when
Starr is the only witness to the fatal shooting of her unarmed best
friend, Khalil, by a police officer. Now what Starr says could destroy
her community. It could also get her killed. Inspired by the Black Lives
Matter movement, this is a powerful and gripping YA novel about one
girl's struggle for justice
The Help Kathryn
Stockett
Aibileen is a black maid in 1962 Jackson, Mississippi, who's always
taken orders quietly, but lately she's unable to hold her bitterness back.
Her friend Minny has never held her tongue but now must somehow
keep secrets about her employer that leave her speechless.
The Hot Zone Richard
Preston
The virus kills nine out of ten of its victims so quickly and gruesomely
that even biohazard experts are terrified. It is airborne, it is extremely
contagious, and it is about to burn through the suburbs of a major
American city. Is there any way to stop it?
The Hotel on
the Corner of
Bitter and
Sweet
Jamie Ford
Henry Lee comes upon a crowd gathered outside the Panama Hotel,
once the gateway to Seattle’s Japantown. It has been boarded up for
decades, but now the new owner has made an incredible discovery: the
belongings of Japanese families, left when they were rounded up and
sent to internment camps during World War II.
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	8 	22

-- 8 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
House Rules 	Jodi Picoult
Jacob Hunt is a teen with Asperger’s syndrome. He’s hopeless at
reading social cues or expressing himself well to others, though he is
brilliant in many ways. But he has a special focus on one subject—
forensic analysis. A police scanner in his room clues him in to crime
scenes, and he’s always showing up and telling the cops what to do.
And he’s usually right.
The Hunger
Games
Complete
Trilogy
Suzanne
Collins
Set in a dark vision of the near future, a terrifying reality TV show is
taking place. Twelve boys and twelve girls are forced to appear in a live
event called The Hunger Games. There is only one rule: kill or be killed.
When sixteen-year-old Katniss Everdeen steps forward to take her
younger sister's place in the games, she sees it as a death sentence. But
Katniss has been close to death before. For her, survival is second
nature.
I am Malala Malala
Yousafzai
"I come from a country that was created at midnight. When I almost
died it was just after midday."
When the Taliban took control of the Swat Valley in Pakistan, one girl
spoke out. Malala Yousafzai refused to be silenced and fought for her
right to an education.
I, Robot 	Isaac Asimov
Here are stories of robots gone mad, of mind-read robots, and robots
with a sense of humor. Of robot politicians, and robots who secretly run
the world--all told with the dramatic blend of science fact and science
fiction that has become Asmiov's trademark.
If He Had Been
With Me Laura Nowlin
An achingly authentic and raw portrait of love, regret, and the life-
altering impact of the relationships we hold closest to us, this YA
romance bestseller is perfect for fans of Colleen Hoover, Jenny Han, and
Lynn Painter.
If he had been with me, everything would have been different...
If I Stay 	Gayle Forman
In the blink of an eye everything changes. Seventeen year-old Mia has
no memory of the accident; she can only recall what happened
afterwards, watching her own damaged body being taken from the
wreck. Little by little she struggles to put together the pieces- to figure
out what she has lost, what she has left, and the very difficult choice she
must make. Heart-wrenchingly beautiful, this will change the way you
look at life, love, and family.
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	9 	22

-- 9 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
The Immortal
Life of
Henrietta Lacks
Rebecca Skloot
Her name was Henrietta Lacks, but scientists know her as HeLa. She
was a poor Southern tobacco farmer who worked the same land as her
slave ancestors, yet her cells—taken without her knowledge—became
one of the most important tools in medicine. The first “immortal”
human cells grown in culture, they are still alive today, though she has
been dead for more than sixty years. If you could pile all HeLa cells
ever grown onto a scale, they’d weigh more than 50 million metric tons
—as much as a hundred Empire State Buildings. HeLa cells were vital
for developing the polio vaccine; uncovered secrets of cancer, viruses,
and the atom bomb’s effects; helped lead to important advances like in
vitro fertilization, cloning, and gene mapping; and have been bought
and sold by the billions.
The Infinite Sea:
The Second
Book of the 5th
Wave
Rick Yancey
Surviving the first four waves was nearly impossible. Now Cassie
Sullivan finds herself in a new world, a world in which the
fundamental trust that binds us together is gone. As the 5th Wave rolls
across the landscape, Cassie, Ben, and Ringer are forced to confront the
Others’ ultimate goal: the extermination of the human race.
An Invisible
Thread Laura Schroff
An Invisible Thread is the true story of the bond between a harried
sales executive and an eleven-year-old boy who seemed destined for a
life of poverty. It is the heartwarming story of a friendship that has
spanned three decades and brought meaning to an over-scheduled
professional and hope to a hungry and desperate boy living on the
streets.
In Real Life 	Joey Graceffa
Twenty-three year old Joey Graceffa has captured the hearts of millions
of teens and young adults through his playful, sweet, and inspirational
YouTube presence (not to mention his sparkling eyes and perfect hair).
Yet, Joey wasn’t always comfortable in his skin, and in this candid
memoir, he thoughtfully looks back on his journey from pain to pride,
self-doubt to self-acceptance.
Into thin Air 	Jon Krakauer
When Jon Krakauer reached the summit of Mt. Everest in the early
afternoon of May 10, 1996, he hadn't slept in fifty-seven hours and was
reeling from the brain-altering effects of oxygen depletion. As he turned
to begin the perilous descent from 29,028 feet (roughly the cruising
altitude of an Airbus jetliner), twenty other climbers were still pushing
doggedly to the top, unaware that the sky had begun to roil with
clouds...
Insurgent 	Veronica Roth
One choice can transform you—or it can destroy you. But every choice
has consequences, and as unrest surges in the factions all around her,
Tris Prior must continue trying to save those she loves—and herself—
while grappling with haunting questions of grief and forgiveness,
identity and loyalty, politics and love.
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	10 	22

-- 10 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
Ironman 	Chris Crutcher
Bo Brewster has been at war with his father for as long as he can
remember. Following angry outbursts at his football coach and English
teacher that have cost him his spot on the football team and moved him
dangerously close to expulsion from school, he turns to the only adult
he believes will listen: Larry King.
It’s Kind of a
Funny Story Ned Vizzini
Like many ambitious New York City teenagers, Craig Gilner sees entry
into Manhattan's Executive Pre-Professional High School as the ticket to
his future. Determined to succeed at life—which means getting into the
right high school to get into the right college to get the right job—Craig
studies night and day to ace the entrance exam, and does. That's when
things start to get crazy. At his new school, Craig realizes that he isn't
brilliant compared to the other kids; he's just average, and maybe not
even that. He soon sees his once-perfect future crumbling away.
The Kite Runner Khaled
Hosseini
Afghanistan, 1975: Twelve-year-old Amir is desperate to win the local
kite-fighting tournament and his loyal friend Hassan promises to help
him. But neither of the boys can foresee what will happen to Hassan
that afternoon, an event that is to shatter their lives. After the Russians
invade and the family is forced to flee to America, Amir realises that
one day he must return to Afghanistan under Taliban rule to find the
one thing that his new world cannot grant him: redemption.
The Last Shot:
City Streets,
Basketball
Dreams
Darcy Frey
It ought to be just a game, but basketball on the playgrounds of Coney
Island is much more than that — for many young men it represents
their only hope of escape from a life of crime, poverty, and despair. In
The Last Shot, Darcy Frey chronicles the aspirations of four of the
neighborhood’s most promising players. What they have going for
them is athletic talent, grace, and years of dedication. But working
against them are woefully inadequate schooling, family circumstances
that are often desperate, and the slick, brutal world of college athletic
recruitment.
The Last Star:
The Final Book
of the 5th Wave
Rick Yancey
The enemy is Other. The enemy is us. They re down here, they re up
there, they re nowhere. They want the Earth, they want us to have it.
They came to wipe us out, they came to save us.
But beneath these riddles lies one truth: Cassie has been betrayed. So
has Ringer. Zombie. Nugget. And all 7.5 billion people who used to live
on our planet. Betrayed first by the Others, and now by ourselves.
Life of Pi 	Yann Martel
Life of Pi is a masterful and utterly original novel that is at once the story
of a young castaway who faces immeasurable hardships on the high
seas, and a meditation on religion, faith, art and life that is as witty as it
is profound. Using the threads of all of our best stories, Yann Martel has
woven a glorious spiritual adventure that makes us question what it
means to be alive, and to believe.
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	11 	22

-- 11 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
The Little Giant
of Aberdeen
County
Tiffany Baker
When Truly Plaice's mother was pregnant, the town of Aberdeen joined
together in betting how recordbreakingly huge the baby boy would
ultimately be. The girl who proved to be Truly paid the price of her
enormity; her father blamed her for her mother's death in childbirth,
and was totally ill equipped to raise either this giant child or her polar
opposite sister Serena Jane, the epitome of femine perfection.
Lone Survivor Marcus
Luttrell
On a clear night in late June 2005, four U.S. Navy SEALs left their base
in northern Afghanistan for the mountainous Pakistani border. Their
mission was to capture or kill a notorious al Qaeda leader known to be
ensconced in a Taliban stronghold surrounded by a small but heavily
armed force. Less then twenty-four hours later, only one of those Navy
SEALs remained alive.
The Magicians 	Lev Grossman
A thrilling and original coming-of- age novel about a young man
practicing magic in the real world
Quentin Coldwater is brilliant but miserable. A senior in high school,
he's still secretly preoccupied with a series of fantasy novels he read as
a child, set in a magical land called Fillory. Imagine his surprise when
he finds himself unexpectedly admitted to a very secret, very exclusive
college of magic in upstate New York, where he receives a thorough
and rigorous education in the craft of modern sorcery.
The Martian 	Andy Weir
Six days ago, astronaut Mark Watney became one of the first people to
walk on Mars.
Now, he's sure he'll be the first person to die there.
After a dust storm nearly kills him and forces his crew to evacuate
while thinking him dead, Mark finds himself stranded and completely
alone with no way to even signal Earth that he's alive--and even if he
could get word out, his supplies would be gone long before a rescue
could arrive.
Matched:
Volume 1 Ally Condie
Cassia has always trusted the Society to make the right choices for her:
what to read, what to watch, what to believe. So when Xander's face
appears on-screen at her Matching ceremony, Cassia knows with
complete certainty that he is her ideal mate . . . until she sees Ky
Markham's face flash for an instant before the screen fades to black.
The Maze
Runner James Dashner
When Thomas wakes up in the lift, the only thing he can remember is
his name. He’s surrounded by strangers—boys whose memories are
also gone.
Outside the towering stone walls that surround them is a limitless,
ever-changing maze. It’s the only way out—and no one’s ever made it
through alive.
Then a girl arrives. The first girl ever. And the message she delivers is
terrifying.
Remember. Survive. Run.
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	12 	22

-- 12 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
Memoirs of a
Teenage
Amnesiac
Gabrielle
Zevin
If Naomi had picked tails, she would have won the coin toss. She
wouldn't have had to go back for the yearbook camera, and she
wouldn't have hit her head on the steps. She wouldn't have woken up
in an ambulance with amnesia. She certainly would have remembered
her boyfriend, Ace. She might even have remembered why she fell in
love with him in the first place. She would understand why her best
friend, Will, keeps calling her "Chief." She'd know about her mom's new
family. She'd know about her dad's fiancée. She never would have met
James, the boy with the questionable past and the even fuzzier future,
who tells her he once wanted to kiss her. She wouldn't have wanted to
kiss him back.
But Naomi picked heads.
Moneyball 	Michael Lewis
Moneyball is a quest for the secret of success in baseball. In a narrative
full of fabulous characters and brilliant excursions into the unexpected,
Michael Lewis follows the low-budget Oakland A's, visionary general
manager Billy Beane, and the strange brotherhood of amateur baseball
theorists. They are all in search of new baseball knowledge—insights
that will give the little guy who is willing to discard old wisdom the
edge over big money.
The Mortal
Instruments
Series
Cassandra
Clare
When fifteen-year-old Clary Fray heads out to the Pandemonium Club
in New York City, she hardly expects to witness a murder -- much less a
murder committed by three teenagers covered with strange tattoos and
brandishing bizarre weapons. Then the body disappears into thin air.
It's hard to call the police when the murderers are invisible to everyone
else and when there is nothing -- not even a smear of blood -- to show
that a boy has died. Or was he a boy?
Ms. Penumbra’s
24-Hour Book
Store
Robin Sloan
Mr. Penumbra’s 24-Hour Bookstore encompasses history, books, and
technology to show how the old and the new exist side by side today. It
explores the age-old human quest for immortality—how close we are
(or not) to achieving it and whether our immortality lies in what we
leave behind rather than our physical presence. The book is a great
depiction of lively, talented, and informed youngsters who come
together to solve a puzzle that has stumped many learned people over
centuries.
My Sister’s
Keeper Jodi Picoult
Anna is not sick, but she might as well be. By age thirteen, she has
undergone countless surgeries, transfusions, and shots so that her older
sister, Kate, can somehow fight the leukemia that has plagued her since
childhood. The product of preimplantation genetic diagnosis, Anna was
conceived as a bone marrow match for Kate -- a life and a role that she
has never challenged...until now.
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	13 	22

-- 13 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
The Namesake 	Jhumpa Lahiri
The Namesake takes the Ganguli family from their tradition-bound life in
Calcutta through their fraught transformation into Americans. On the
heels of their arranged wedding, Ashoke and Ashima Ganguli settle
together in Cambridge, Massachusetts. An engineer by training, Ashoke
adapts far less warily than his wife, who resists all things American and
pines for her family. When their son is born, the task of naming him
betrays the vexed results of bringing old ways to the new world.
Never Let Me
Go
Kazuo
Ishiguro
Hailsham seems like a pleasant English boarding school, far from the
influences of the city. Its students are well tended and supported,
trained in art and literature, and become just the sort of people the
world wants them to be. But, curiously, they are taught nothing of the
outside world and are allowed little contact with it.
Night Circus Erin
Morgenstern
The circus arrives at night, without warning. No announcements
precede it. It is simply there, when yesterday it was not. Within
nocturnal black and white striped tents awaits a unique experience, a
feast for the senses, where one can get lost in a maze of clouds, meander
through a lush garden made of ice, stand awestruck as a tattooed
contortionist folds herself into a small glass box, and gaze in
wonderment at an illusionist performing impossible feats of magic.
The Nightingale Kristin
Hannah
With courage, grace, and powerful insight, bestselling author Kristin
Hannah captures the epic panorama of World War II and illuminates an
intimate part of history seldom seen: the women's war. The Nightingale
tells the stories of two sisters, separated by years and experience, by
ideals, passion and circumstance, each embarking on her own
dangerous path toward survival, love, and freedom in German-
occupied, war-torn France—a heartbreakingly beautiful novel that
celebrates the resilience of the human spirit and the durability of
women. It is a novel for everyone, a novel for a lifetime.
1984 	George Orwell
In 1984, London is a grim city in the totalitarian state of Oceania where
Big Brother is always watching you and the Thought Police can
practically read your mind. Winston Smith is a man in grave danger for
the simple reason that his memory still functions. Drawn into a
forbidden love affair, Winston finds the courage to join a secret
revolutionary organization called The Brotherhood, dedicated to the
destruction of the Party. Together with his beloved Julia, he hazards his
life in a deadly match against the powers that be.
On the Devil’s
Court Carl Deuker
What would you give to be your school's superstar? After reading Dr.
Faustus, Joe considers the merits of selling his soul to the devil.
Suddenly, he finds himself changing from a lousy basketball player and
a C student to the star athlete he always dreamed he could be. Even
though he isn't sure if he actually made a deal with the devil, he can't
help but enjoy the benefits that come with his newfound abilities. But is
achieving his dreams worth what he may have given up?
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	14 	22

-- 14 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
The Once and
Future King T. H. White
Once upon a time, a young boy called “Wart” was tutored by a
magician named Merlyn in preparation for a future he couldn’t possibly
imagine. A future in which he would ally himself with the greatest
knights, love a legendary queen and unite a country dedicated to
chivalrous values. A future that would see him crowned and known for
all time as Arthur, King of the Britons.
One of Us is
Lying
Karen M.
McManus
“Pretty Little Liars meets The Breakfast Club” (EW.com) in this “flat-out
addictive” (RT Book Reviews) story of what happens when five
strangers walk into detention and only four walk out alive.
Orphan Train Christina
Baker Kline
Christina Baker Kline’s #1 New York Times bestselling novel—the
captivating story of a 91-year-old woman with a hidden past as an
orphan-train rider and the teenage girl whose own troubled
adolescence leads her to seek answers to long-buried questions…now
with an extended scene that addresses the number one question readers
ask, and an excerpt from Kline’s upcoming novel A Piece of the World.
Outliers Malcolm
Gladwell
In this stunning new book, Malcolm Gladwell takes us on an
intellectual journey through the world of "outliers"--the best and the
brightest, the most famous and the most successful. He asks the
question: what makes high-achievers different?
The
Overachievers;
The Secret Lives
of Driven Kids
Alexandra
Robbins
High school isn't what it used to be. With record numbers of students
competing fiercely to get into college, schools are no longer primarily
places of learning. They're dog-eat-dog battlegrounds in which kids
must set aside interests and passions in order to strategize over how to
game the system. In this increasingly stressful environment, kids aren't
defined by their character or hunger for knowledge, but by often
arbitrary scores and statistics.
Painting the
Black Carl Deuker
In his senior year of high school, late bloomer Ryan Ward has just
begun to feel the magic of baseball - the magic of catching a wicked
slider, of throwing a runner out, of training hard and playing hard and
pushing his limits. Giving up baseball would be like getting off the
most exciting ride of his life. But when one of his teammates clearly
pushes the limits too far, Ryan is faced with a heartbreaking dilemma:
he must choose between his love for the game and his sense of integrity
- two things that, in his mind, baseball should bring together.
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	15 	22

-- 15 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
Paper Towns 	John Green
Quentin Jacobsen has spent a lifetime loving the magnificently
adventurous Margo Roth Spiegelman from afar. So when she cracks
open a window and climbs back in the middle of the night—dressed
like a ninja and summoning him for an ingenious campaign of revenge
—he follows.
Paranoid Park 	Blake Nelson
It was an accident. He didn’t mean to kill the security guard with his
skateboard—it was self-defense. But there’s no one to back up his story.
No one even knows he was at Paranoid Park. Should he confess, or can
he get away with it? It’s an ethical question no one should have to
answer.
The Paris Wife 	Paula McLain
Chicago, 1920: Hadley Richardson is a quiet twenty-eight-year-old who
has all but given up on love and happiness—until she meets Ernest
Hemingway. Following a whirlwind courtship and wedding, the pair
set sail for Paris, where they become the golden couple in a lively and
volatile group—the fabled “Lost Generation”—that includes Gertrude
Stein, Ezra Pound, and F. Scott Fitzgerald.
The Picture of
Dorian Gray Oscar Wilde
The Picture of Dorian Gray [1891] is Oscar Wilde's masterful novel about
a beautiful young man who is portrayed by an artist, and whose picture
proceeds to age in his place. Led astray by an older friend, Dorian Gray
acts upon his desires with no regard for the consequences. Despite this,
he always manages to escape unpunished. His painted portrait,
however, becomes increasingly distorted; and finally, he can no longer
endure it.
P.S. I Still Love
You Jenny Han
In this charming and heartfelt sequel to the New York Times bestseller
To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before, we see first love through the eyes of
the unforgettable Lara Jean. Love is never easy, but maybe that’s part of
what makes it so amazing.
Ranger’s
Apprentice
Series
John Flanagan
They have always scared him in the past – the Rangers, with their dark
cloaks and shadowy ways. The villagers believe the Rangers practise
magic that makes them invisible to ordinary people. And now 15-year-
old Will, always small for his age, has been chosen as a Ranger’s
apprentice.
Ready Player
One Ernest Cline
In the year 2044, reality is an ugly place. The only time teenage Wade
Watts really feels alive is when he's jacked into the virtual utopia
known as the OASIS. Wade's devoted his life to studying the puzzles
hidden within this world's digital confines—puzzles that are based on
their creator's obsession with the pop culture of decades past and that
promise massive power and fortune to whoever can unlock them.
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	16 	22

-- 16 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
Red Rising 	Pierce Brown
Ender's Game meets The Hunger Games in this, the first in an
extraordinary trilogy from an incredible new voice.
Darrow is a Helldiver, one of a thousand men and women who live in
the vast caves beneath the surface of Mars, generations of people who
spend their lives toiling to mine the precious elements that will allow
the planet to be terraformed. Just knowing that, one day, people will be
able to walk the surface of the planet is enough to justify their sacrifice.
The Earth is dying, and Darrow and his people are the only hope
humanity has left.
Rich Dad Poor
Dad
Robert
Kiyosaki
Rich Dad Poor Dad is Robert's story of growing up with two dads -- his
real father and the father of his best friend, his rich dad -- and the ways
in which both men shaped his thoughts about money and investing.
The book explodes the myth that you need to earn a high income to be
rich and explains the difference between working for money and
having your money work for you.
The Road Cormac
McCarthy
A father and his son walk alone through burned America. Nothing
moves in the ravaged landscape save the ash on the wind. It is cold
enough to crack stones, and when the snow falls it is gray. The sky is
dark. Their destination is the coast, although they don't know what, if
anything, awaits them there. They have nothing; just a pistol to defend
themselves against the lawless bands that stalk the road, the clothes
they are wearing, a cart of scavenged food—and each other.
Room Emma
Donoghue
Held captive for years in a small shed, a woman and her precocious
young son finally gain their freedom, and the boy experiences the
outside world for the first time.
The Rule of
Four
Ian Caldwell &
Dustin
Thomason
An ivy league murder, a mysterious coded manuscript, and the secrets
of a Renaissance prince collide memorably in THE RULE OF FOUR -- a
brilliant work of fiction that weaves together suspense and scholarship,
high art and unimaginable treachery.
Sarah’s Key Tatiana de
Rosnay
Paris, July 1942: Sarah, a ten year-old girl, is brutally arrested with her
family by the French police in the Vel' d'Hiv' roundup, but not before
she locks her younger brother in a cupboard in the family's apartment,
thinking that she will be back within a few hours.
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	17 	22

-- 17 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
The Secret Life
of Bees
Sue Monk
Kidd
When Lily’s fierce-hearted black “stand-in mother,” Rosaleen, insults
three of the town’s most vicious racists, Lily decides they should both
escape to Tiburon, South Carolina—a town that holds the secret to her
mother’s past. There they are taken in by an eccentric trio of black
beekeeping sisters who introduce Lily to a mesmerizing world of bees,
honey, and the Black Madonna who presides over their household.
The Selection 	Kiera Cass
Prepare to be swept into a world of breathless fairy-tale romance,
swoonworthy characters, glittering gowns, and fierce intrigue perfect
for readers who loved Divergent, Delirium, or The Wrath and the
Dawn.
The Seven
Husbands of
Evelyn Hugo
Taylor Jenkins
Reid
From the New York Times bestselling author of Daisy Jones & the Six—
an entrancing and “wildly addictive journey of a reclusive Hollywood
starlet” (PopSugar) as she reflects on her relentless rise to the top and
the risks she took, the loves she lost, and the long-held secrets the
public could never imagine.
The Scorch
Trials James Dashner
The Scorch Trials picks up where The Maze Runner left off. The Gladers
have escaped the Maze, but now they face an even more treacherous
challenge on the open roads of a devastated planet.
And WICKED has made sure to adjust the variables and stack the odds
against them.
Can Thomas survive in such a violent world?
Scythe Neal
Shusterman
A world with no hunger, no disease, no war, no misery: humanity has
conquered all those things, and has even conquered death. Now
Scythes are the only ones who can end life—and they are commanded
to do so, in order to keep the size of the population under control.
Shadow of the
Wind
Carlos Ruiz
Zafon
Barcelona, 1945: A city slowly heals in the aftermath of the Spanish Civil
War, and Daniel, an antiquarian book dealer’s son who mourns the loss
of his mother, finds solace in a mysterious book entitled The Shadow of
the Wind, by one Julián Carax. But when he sets out to find the author’s
other works, he makes a shocking discovery: someone has been
systematically destroying every copy of every book Carax has written.
In fact, Daniel may have the last of Carax’s books in existence. Soon
Daniel’s seemingly innocent quest opens a door into one of Barcelona’s
darkest secrets--an epic story of murder, madness, and doomed love.
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	18 	22

-- 18 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
The Silent
Patient
Alex
Michaelides
Ketterdam: a bustling hub of international trade where anything can be
had for the right price—and no one knows that better than criminal
prodigy Kaz Brekker. Kaz is offered a chance at a deadly heist that
could make him rich beyond his wildest dreams. But he can't pull it off
alone. . . .
Six of Crows 	Leigh Bardugo
Ketterdam: a bustling hub of international trade where anything can be
had for the right price—and no one knows that better than criminal
prodigy Kaz Brekker. Kaz is offered a chance at a deadly heist that
could make him rich beyond his wildest dreams. But he can't pull it off
alone. . . .
The Space
Between Us
Thrity
Umrigar
A portrayal of two woman discovering an emotional rapport as they
struggle against the confines of a rigid caste system, Umrigar’s
captivating second novel echoes the timeless intensity of Zora Neale
Hurston’s Their Eyes Were WatchingGod, Betty Smith’s A Tree Grows
inBrooklyn, and Barbara Kingsolver’s The Poisonwood Bible—a
quintessential triumph of modern literary fiction.
Spy High:
Mission One A. J. Butcher
As students at a special high school that trains them to be secret agents,
six teenagers struggle to complete the training exercises as a team
before being sent out into the field to sink or swim.
State of Fear Michael
Crichton
When a group of eco-terrorists engage in a global conspiracy to
generate weather-related natural disasters, its up to environmental
lawyer Peter Evans and his team to uncover the subterfuge.
St. Lucy’s Home
for Girls Raised
by Wolves
Karen Russell
In these ten glittering stories, the award-winning, bestselling author of
Swamplandia! takes us to the ghostly and magical swamps of the
Florida Everglades. Here wolf-like girls are reformed by nuns, a family
makes their living wrestling alligators in a theme park, and little girls
sail away on crab shells.
The Summer I
Turned Pretty Jenny Han
Belly has always lived for the summertime, because summer means all
her favorite things: swimming, the beach, and the Fisher boys, Conrad
and Jeremiah. For as long as she can remember, she’s shared her
summers with the brothers at Cousins Beach. And for as long as she can
remember, she’s been in love with Conrad. Then one summer it seems
like he might have feelings for her too—but so does Jeremiah.
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	19 	22

-- 19 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
Sweetness at
the Bottom of
the Pie
Alan Bradley
It is the summer of 1950–and at the once-grand mansion of Buckshaw,
young Flavia de Luce, an aspiring chemist with a passion for poison, is
intrigued by a series of inexplicable events: A dead bird is found on the
doorstep, a postage stamp bizarrely pinned to its beak. Then, hours
later, Flavia finds a man lying in the cucumber patch and watches him
as he takes his dying breath.
The Tattooist of
Auschwitz
Heather
Morris
In April 1942, Lale Sokolov, a Slovakian Jew, is forcibly transported to
the concentration camps at Auschwitz-Birkenau. When his captors
discover that he speaks several languages, he is put to work as a
Tätowierer (the German word for tattooist), tasked with permanently
marking his fellow prisoners.
To All the Boys
I’ve Loved
Before
Jenny Han
Sixteen-year-old Lara Jean Song keeps her love letters in a hatbox her
mother gave her. They aren’t love letters that anyone else wrote for her;
these are ones she’s written. One for every boy she’s ever loved—five in
all. When she writes, she pours out her heart and soul and says all the
things she would never say in real life, because her letters are for her
eyes only. Until the day her secret letters are mailed, and suddenly, Lara
Jean’s love life goes from imaginary to out of control.
Turtles All the
Way Down John Green
Aza's life is filled with complications.
Living with anxiety and OCD is enough but when Daisy, her Best and
Most Fearless Friend, brings her on a mission to find a fugitive
billionaire things are about to get even more complicated.
Two Can Keep a
Secret
Karen
McManus
A perfect town is hiding secrets. Secrets that somebody would kill to
keep hidden. Ellery's never been to Echo Ridge, but she's heard all
about it. Malcolm grew up in the shadow of the Homecoming Queen's
death. Then another girl disappears.
Unbroken Laura
Hillenbrand
In boyhood, Louis Zamperini was an incorrigible delinquent. As a
teenager, he channeled his defiance into running, discovering a
prodigious talent that had carried him to the Berlin Olympics. But when
World War II began, the athlete became an airman, embarking on a
journey that led to a doomed flight on a May afternoon in 1943.
Understanding
Comics Scott McCloud
Praised throughout the cartoon industry by such luminaries as Art
Spiegelman, Matt Groening, and Will Eisner, this innovative comic book
provides a detailed look at the history, meaning, and art of comics and
cartooning.
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	20 	22

-- 20 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
A Visit from the
Goon Squad Jennifer Egan
Bennie is an aging former punk rocker and record executive. Sasha is
the passionate, troubled young woman he employs. Here Jennifer Egan
brilliantly reveals their pasts, along with the inner lives of a host of
other characters whose paths intersect with theirs. With music pulsing
on every page, A Visit from the Goon Squad is a startling, exhilarating
novel of self-destruction and redemption.
The Wal-Mart
Effect
Charles
Fishman
The Wal-Mart Effect: The overwhelming impact of the world's largest
company--due to its relentless pursuit of low prices--on retailers and
manufacturers, wages and jobs, the culture of shopping, the shape of
our communities, and the environment; a global force of unprecedented
nature. Wal-Mart is not only the world's largest company; it is also the
largest company in the history of the world.
Watchmen Alan Moore &
Dave Gibbons
It all begins with the paranoid delusions of a half-insane hero called
Rorschach. But is Rorschach really insane--or has he in fact uncovered a
plot to murder superheroes and, even worse, millions of innocent
civilians? On the run from the law, Rorschach reunites with his former
teammates in a desperate attempt to save the world and their lives, but
what they uncover will shock them to their very core and change the
face of the planet!
Water for
Elephants Sara Gruen
Though he may not speak of them, the memories still dwell inside Jacob
Jankowski's ninety-something-year-old mind. Memories of himself as a
young man, tossed by fate onto a rickety train that was home to the
Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth. Memories of a world
filled with freaks and clowns, with wonder and pain and anger and
passion; a world with its own narrow, irrational rules, its own way of
life, and its own way of death. The world of the circus: to Jacob it was
both salvation and a living hell.
We Were Liars 	E. Lockhart
A beautiful and distinguished family.
A private island.
A brilliant, damaged girl; a passionate, political boy.
A group of four friends—the Liars—whose friendship turns destructive.
A revolution. An accident. A secret.
Lies upon lies.
True love.
The truth.
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	21 	22

-- 21 of 22 --

BHHS Independent Reading
What is the
What? Dave Eggers
What Is the What is the story of Valentino Achak Deng, a refugee in war-
ravaged southern Sudan who flees from his village in the mid-1980s
and becomes one of the so-called Lost Boys. Valentino’s travels bring
him in contact with enemy soldiers, with liberation rebels, with hyenas
and lions, with disease and starvation, and with deadly murahaleen
(militias on horseback)–the same sort who currently terrorize Darfur.
Eventually Deng is resettled in the United States with almost 4000 other
young Sudanese men, and a very different struggle begins. Based
closely on true experiences, What Is the What is heartbreaking and
arresting, filled with adventure, suspense, tragedy, and, finally,
triumph.
Where the
Crawdads Sing Delia Owens
For years, rumors of the “Marsh Girl” have haunted Barkley Cove, a
quiet town on the North Carolina coast. So in late 1969, when
handsome Chase Andrews is found dead, the locals immediately
suspect Kya Clark, the so-called Marsh Girl. But Kya is not what they
say.
Where You Go
Is Not Who
You’ll Be
Frank Bruni
Over the last few decades, Americans have turned college admissions
into a terrifying and occasionally devastating process, preceded by test
prep, tutors, all sorts of stratagems, all kinds of rankings, and a
conviction among too many young people that their futures will be
determined and their worth established by which schools say yes and
which say no.
Will Grayson,
Will Grayson
John Green &
David
Levithan
One cold night, in a most unlikely corner of Chicago, two teens—both
named Will Grayson—are about to cross paths. As their worlds collide
and intertwine, the Will Graysons find their lives going in new and
unexpected directions, building toward romantic turns-of-heart and the
epic production of history’s most fabulous high school musical.
Wonder 	R.J. Palacio
August Pullman was born with a facial deformity that, up until now,
has prevented him from going to a mainstream school. Starting 5th
grade at Beecher Prep, he wants nothing more than to be treated as an
ordinary kid—but his new classmates can't get past Auggie's
extraordinary face.
Independent Reading Selections
*All book summaries courtesy of Google Books 	of	22 	22

-- 22 of 22 --

